the context for the series of
broadcasts and a lot of the reading i've
been doing myself
over the last year has been that i am
preparing to publish my first
uh book for grown-ups ever
so yeah the last time i even wrote a
book
that was intended for grown-ups it
really was a political manifesto
uh before i left for asia around say
in toronto i actually wrote some uh
rollicking has melissa have you read
that stuff i don't think you have
i wrote a book called uh
lay claim to the wilderness etc maybe
lay claim to the wild
etc so this kind of ecological radical
dissident philosophy
and partly influenced by max turner
partly influenced by my study of
first nations politics some themes that
would go on for years to come
it was kind of not not rooted in
buddhism i felt like would be the
last thing i'd write that had nothing to
do with buddhist philosophy
there might have been some little
stylistic uh
you know bits and pieces in there what's
but what i've been reading
but i knew already i was going to start
devoting a lot of time to asian
languages philosophy what have you
and i wrote some political manifestos
back at that time
full of sweeping generalizations and
bold resolutions and what
young a young man's folly one might say
anyway
in the last couple of years i did write
children's stories
but to write a a book intended for
adults i know we've written innumerable
articles i've written a couple articles
in chinese even in the last couple of
years
so short length non-fiction i've written
a good deal of
but to write a book intended for other
adult
readers and particularly people like you
in the audience right now
my uh my youtube audience i'm sure the
vast majority of people would read it at
least in the first five years of being
published
would be people who know me or get to
know me through youtube so one type of
book i have been reading
well one a lot of the reading i've been
doing has been research related to that
forthcoming book
and then another type of reading that
i'm i'm kind of dreading is this sort of
thing the essential guide to getting
your book published
a book about how to publish a book yeah
um but maybe a necessary evil
so guys um i'm happy to answer questions
from the audience i can answer some of
the questions that people sent in
through patreon also i mean i can answer
questions and interact the audience in
various ways is one of the advantages
during this live
but unusually normally i broadcast i
mean 99
of my videos there is absolutely zero
preparation for
i get that question all the time is this
scripted is this reversed and the answer
is
no um but i did just write down the
titles of a bunch of books i've been
reading and a bunch of topics i can
cover in this live stream in future i
could also write down
things that have been in the news this
week political events which i may have
read articles about but haven't done a
book
book length reading or research about if
i
want to talk about them but obviously
also you know there's this question
of whether or not uh you know the
audience wants to
wants to compute everything so i just
got a question
from junebug is it pre-recorded lol
what what are you guys used to are you
used to
youtubers and broadcasters who just have
absolutely nothing to say i've seen this
and they sit there in silence watching
and waiting for something for the
audience to reply there are there are
live streamers that do that
no i come on the mic when i've got
something to say i've got something to
talk about all right
if you're gonna say something
intelligent or interesting then you know
okay i'll read it out i'll reply to it
you can join in the conversation
but yeah there is a standard for you to
live up to here jude bug i mean
what do you think you think i'm thrilled
just to you know someone says hi
what am i gonna do okay yeah hi hi to
you too high wicked energy i'm not
not bad it's not unoffended but sure i
got a lot to say i gotta
talk about and by the way guys um
there's an interesting question from ron
simmons uh
not all of the books that i have to talk
about can actually hold up
and show on camera i do have a ton of
them here but it is true
some of the books i've been reading they
exist only as a pdf
or they exist on my mobile phone this
sort of thing
okay so ron simmons asks when did you
start studying nihilism
as a whole so one reason to talk about
this today
i don't think this is on my list of
topics is that this is the week
in may of 2021 when i finally posted
this peculiar article
about nihilism and the philosophy of max
sterner
so that's something i wrote in
that was published published i posted
the internet today
not today this week a couple days ago in
so i know some of my viewers and patreon
subscribers they've been talking and
thinking more about maxter than ever
the reason for that happening is that i
think about
three of my patreon subscribers are
reading
sterner right now they weren't really
asking me for help with it or anything
they just mentioned to me
a different problem uh two different
people actually wrote into me
complaining about the translation
of max english i was like oh wow this is
right this is right in my wheelhouse you
want to talk about the difficulty of
translating max turner's philosophy uh
into english
so um and then we have another
interesting contrasting question here
some of the audience says
are we talking about moral nihilism so
maybe answer that first and then come
back to your question
uh ron if i can call you ron so
uh my own school of nihilistic thought
is called historical nihilism and the
easiest way to explain or understand
whatever somebody means by nihilism
is to explain what it is you're negating
so
you know um japanese anarchism
is best understood in terms of what was
the social system they were rebelling
against
to define it positively uh someone asked
tonight like what kind of society they
want um for the most part the japanese
anarchists were people who were willing
to fight and die and kill
to get rid of the emperor of japan
that's who they were and beyond that
you may or may not know this one of
their strongest influences was
max sterner the philosophy of max turner
was translated into japanese
so from its its outset japanese
anarchism was
had much more to do with nihilism than
anarchism does today
uh in the modern west in english
speaking west to the uh the french
speaking west to the spanish
speaking west where sterner has been a
pretty
minor voice i think he is much more
famous and influential now
in 2021 than at any earlier point in
history so just to give you guys some of
you don't even know what max turner is i
understand some of you don't know what
nihilism is
totally understandable but you know um
the fact that there are pages on reddit
and facebook
full of max turner memes and twitter
and discord and the fact that there are
these young people who
play video games and and they know and
get
max turner jokes and that max jr has
become
meaningful and sailing it as a critique
of what's going on in the mainstream
left
as a critique of what's going on amongst
anarchists
it's become known as a critique of
atheism even like well atheism doesn't
go far enough here's something more
more edgy more extreme that's beyond
just sort of a
so-called new atheism as a movement um
i saw some memes when i posted the link
to my my new article my new article
written in 2006 about philosophy of x
turner
you know i saw some memes that i could
immediately relate to it these were
young people
who were sick and tired of the so-called
and caps the anarcho-capitalists
and they were using sterner to attack
and ridicule what was going on in our
co-capitalism
now this is a digression but i think a
useful one to say if you want to know
what people mean by
nihilism and why it matters um for the
most part
you can arrive at a working pragmatic
understanding by talking about what it
is that's being
negated what it is that's being opposed
and again this is meaningful
even in far-off exotic cultural and
political contexts
uh like japan and indeed it's
interesting to ask
what does nihilism mean in japan what
does anarchism mean in japan what does
the philosophy of max sterner
mean in japan japan might seem like a
reasonably familiar cultural context
but it's not now for those of you who
study
arabic or modern politics of the arab
world
how do any of those things translate
into modern arabic
very interesting question and we're not
really talking about translation we're
talking about the way in which people
will pick and choose
the cultural influences the cultural
references that are that are meaningful
for them and so on so the short answer
to one of those one of those questions
was um are we talking about moral
nihilism
and i guess the answer is no we're
talking about something a lot more
profound a lot more political
a lot more broad than moral nihilism per
se
so one of the reasons why i use the term
historical nihilism
is to differentiate what i do with
nihilism and why it matters to me from
say cosmological nihilism
um from other meanings and uses the word
to differentiate from russian
nihilism um you know there are there are
different people taking the word
nihilist
and using it in different ways but yeah
it is it is easiest to
get to the point by talking about what
it is you you want to negate
and certainly you know my my forthcoming
book it was just
i was writing the book this morning and
last night i'm still actively working on
the book
it's not like an abandoned manuscript or
something um
my new book no more manifestos that will
give you a very thorough sense of
everything it is i want to negotiate
um you know why it is i am a dissident
intellectual
in canada why it is that i'm in some
ways even you could say a kind of
frustrated revolutionary in this context
while you know identifying as nihilus
while i don't believe in i don't
sympathize with
any of the cultural cross currents that
use and popularize
the idea of revolution that offer you a
sort of ready-made
lego kit for how to assemble your own
revolution so in case you hadn't guessed
it or you didn't know this
yeah i completely laugh at you know
marxism and
communism and so on all the easy answers
provided by the old
uh ideologies and that in itself by the
way
is a is a very good reason to identify
with nihilism or to get an interest in
the ideology of max turner
if your position is that there isn't a
tradition you're a part of and you find
yourself largely
uh critic of and you know uh reviling uh
these these established traditions and
ideas that are around you
you know be at the catholic church or
you know communism or what have you
if you're an outsider if you're if
you're someone who has a you know
um stands in a situation of confronting
the indifference of of your
contemporaries
in those ideologies that will bring you
over a bit by bit to
the nihilist diet and might make you a
little bit with uh a little bit
interested in in philosophy of maximum
sorry so it looks like we have some more
uh interesting questions oh right
but look on the meaning of the word
historical nihilism itself
i think it's significant to note
communism
is very much a cult based on the belief
in history
in taking historical events and turning
them into a kind of religion
that you must believe in historical
inevitability
marx's analysis of what happened in the
past and then the projections of what
are going to happen in the future
yeah and even still today in china in
many ways the chinese communist party
has become very cynical and detached
about
communism itself and marxism but they
still insist that it's crucial in order
to be part of 21st century china
that you believe in history you believe
in the meaningfulness
and purpose of history the history isn't
meaningless or pointless or aimless
right like
this is this is part of the emphasis
given by contemporary communism in china
and the the chinese communist party they
openly use that term to describe their
enemies
that what they are fighting against is
historical nihilism
now again this in the context of israel
or germany this would evoke a different
sense of the meaning of history
here i mean where i'm living right now
is built on genocide very literally the
city i'm living the particular land
i'm happening is built on genocide um
but you know with china they've been
through this tremendous suffering
in the 20th century and yes there's the
whole ideology of communism and marxism
and the power mongering and corruption
the communist party but if you set that
aside there's a certain subjective
emotional reality
to human beings just saying no this
can't have been for nothing
you have to believe in it you have to
believe there's a purpose you have to
believe
you have to believe in history you know
you have to believe it all makes sense
and you have to believe it's all for the
best
and in this way communism is remarkably
like catholicism
it's the law of the catholic faith when
you talk to true believing catholics
why did you persecute these witches why
did you go through all these terrible
things
why do you have all these meaningful
those pardon me meaningful wars
meaningful and
meaningless wars why these internacion
wars fratricidal
is a brother against brother for the
sake of this church and now you look
back and it doesn't make sense
and you know a lot of what what they
have to believe in
is that god's will is being exhibited in
history the history makes sense that
it's meaningful that it's for a purpose
that's for some greater good like
it's so that we could all learn this
that catholics
tend to believe in history and live with
history actually in a way that's
shockingly similar to modern communism
so in saying historical nihilism and i'm
supposedly some kind of budding
sinologist study the chinese language of
chinese politics is part of what i do
with my life
maybe a small part but an important part
now we assume in the next 10 years in
the future
um this is saying yeah i am one of these
people my philosophy is the diametric
opposite
of the communist party um i'm you know
i'm about embracing the meaninglessness
and arbitrariness of of history history
doesn't make sense
it doesn't have a direction it doesn't
have a teleology or a telos if we want
to get into the jargon academics series
you know uh now also just say when you
meet historians who don't identify as
marxists and don't identify as catholics
you often do have to break down that
same kind of
same kind of ossified belief you know
um why did richard nixon
support the khmer rouge in cambodia
something many people don't know
shockingly immoral decision by the nixon
administration and then
it wasn't just the americans the british
and the west germans and all the
american allies came in
and helped to you know support this
genocidal third world regime
you know someone who has that attitude
even if they're a detached historian
they're not a marxist or they're not a
catholic
they're gonna write that history and
they're gonna struggle with that history
and with what it means today and with
with meaning in their own lives
with that first assumption this this
must
be for some greater good this must be
for some better purpose
so that's also you know part of what i'm
attacking you know let's let's really
deal with the arbitrariness of history
and politics
let's deal with the arbitrariness and
senselessness of violence and so on you
know and in our own lives
a lot of these things don't make sense
i'm not going to try to make make sense
of them
so it's my position of profound
opposition yes to christianity and
judaism and islam i'm totally opposed to
those religions
in my circle that's not terribly uh
you know it's not terribly controversial
but globally it is that's
still a huge ongoing struggle your
position on religion
if i even moved to texas or something it
is i mean there are parts of the united
states
where that struggle of atheism against
uh
religion is still ongoing but this is a
much deeper much broader struggle where
you know the beliefs i reject are not
just the beliefs of christianity or
islam
i reject the beliefs communism is based
on i i reject the beliefs that any
kind of putative or actual political
ideology is based on i'm really
in a thorough systematic way into
believing nothing
and then learning from history on that
basis
from that that kind of radical and
profound skepticism
learning from history in a very
different way um
all right so we have a lot of comments i
don't know i don't know how many of
these are substantive
um it's good to see this stuff is boring
all right
so someone called exc.exe says with
greece
you said the country had nothing to
offer you with all due respect
what the heck do you think greece and
its uh current state could offer
uh well my expectations were low so
what's being alluded to here is that my
girlfriend melissa and i went to greece
and we were really considering living
there
uh permanently what what do we need them
to provide we didn't even expect them to
write us with a library and a library
card guys
if we were we were not looking for much
i think my feeling is that i had a lot
to offer greece
i mean sir i don't know you know when i
moved to cambodia when i moved to laos
you know i was i was going to bring my
light to their darkness what can i tell
you
i was i was there to light up athens i
was not expecting athens to light up my
life
i'm being real with you you can you can
call this egomania
but i mean let's let's say wherever it
is i'm moving um if i move to los
angeles
if i move to uh haifa israel if i move
to athens greece
i'm bringing my meaningful life with me
there
my project my sense of purpose what it
is i'm working on
and i'm of course i have to be worried
if someone else is going to get in my
way
so it's going to make it impossible for
me to live my life or something but no
um i wasn't expecting the greek people
to kind of really do anything
for me i wasn't expecting the greek
government to do anything you know what
i mean i wasn't
you know i so i look it just seems like
the question it's a totally
totally reasonable question um but
anyway
he says greece in its current state uh
greece is a
first world country with third world
problems and it's not bad
depending on what you want in life could
be a great place for you to move there
could be people in the audience right
now for whom
uh moving to grace greece and community
to live in greece would be a
would be a good choice uh but no i you
know i expected very very little
from grace so that's i think that's the
answer to that
um
[Music]
all right so there's a question here do
i sympathize with all
variations of nihilism uh
look you know
have you ever heard of a conference of
nihilists
have you heard of a publication a
magazine
like i don't really think there are a
lot of offshoots of nihilism i don't
think there's a lot going on
um it's interesting that people know max
sterner's name at all
it's interesting that there's that the
word um
is going through a bit of a revival of
interest on the internet like a positive
use
of nihilism not just as an insult but
let's not let's not get ourselves here
guys
if you've been watching the channel for
a long time you've heard me criticize
utilitarianism in this way because
people
talk about utilitarianism as if it's
this powerful world movement like
comparable to communism
communism exists those guys have
meetings and they have armies and they
have millions of dollars at their
disposal
and i mean you know communism is
influencing the world's history
in my opinion for worse rather than
better but you know it's like look guys
utilitarianism
it's never even been a significant
factor in protests against the vietnam
war or something it's
it didn't ever add up to anything as a
movement so let's be honest with
ourselves you know nihilism is uh
it doesn't exist as a movement and i
don't even think there are
hit authors i mean i don't think i think
there are novelists or anything today
um that are that are making that are
successful with the word or concept
analysis
so let's not let's not overrate it but
you know i have to
describe my own philosophies somehow and
indeed the playlist on my channel
dealing with this
from memory is called something like uh
historical nihilism
my own philosophy so you know um if i
have to describe myself one way or
another
uh it's it's a useful term and category
for me
this is a pause while i'm reading your
comments from the audience
so interesting question from a longtime
viewer and commenter here
uh nacho asks is it true that nihilism
goes through
two stages the thinking state and a
deeper more
complete form of nihilism based on
feeling like an emotional reality
analysis
so look you know um
to give you an example when i was a very
young man still a teenager
i'd lived in academia i'd been on
university campuses
people you know really train you
to believe in and be excited about
abstract ideas presented by plato
uh abstract ideas presented by hegel
hegel the most boring philosopher
the professors are trying to get you
excited about the accomplishments of
emmanuel kant
which is utterly boring and
insignificant and really laughable
the intellectual legacy of mayo and yes
there were people around me including my
own parents
who tried to you know create this aura
of anticipation excitement around
uh karl marx so
there will be a tremendous emotional
impact
when you reach the point in your life
where you're willing to look at all
those things and realize
this is just this is all but
this is all really nonsense
um and you know you also may start to
understand
analytically the motivations those
people had to lie to you or to lie to
themselves
but it's a lot like santa claus you know
some
parents are just trying to make their
child believe in santa claus because i
think it'll make the child
happier some parents are really so
insane that they believe
in santa claus themselves but you know
regardless you have this culture of
of encouraging people to believe in
things that are unreal
and there are only two ways that story
can end
either you are really so intellectually
deficient that you go on believing in
santa claus forever
you know you become a cult member goes
around preaching
you know the belief in santa claus or
you have this break
from belief now you may make that break
and you may just question santa claus
you may just question the particular
thing
being believed in the particular creed
or you may take the further step of
questioning belief itself
or it's not just why do we believe in
santa claus but
why do we believe period why do people
think it's virtuous and good to be a
believer
so yeah i think for most thinking and
feeling people
that is going to be uh you know an
emotionally moving experience
i know one woman she used to be a
youtuber
who was a true believing member of the
mormon church
she wasn't just a passive mormon she
actually did the pilgrimages
and paid the tithes she was deeply
passionately involved in the mormon
church
and she was raising her children in it
and her husband was married to the
church
and she completely 110 lost faith in
that
i would have been happy to have her on
the channel talk about that she is not
comfortable doing so you know that's a
very clear palpable break
with belief right um
there are a number of further steps you
can take
uh and obviously i mean if you actually
look we could do social science reaching
this we can we can apply for a grant
and do social science research on the
emotional
personal and professional consequences
of breaking from your beliefs
some people just become alcoholics some
people just you know
immerse themselves in the pleasures of
the senses i've
met i've never been to an atheist
conference myself then this is a
uniquely american experience right
this is not italian culture italy isn't
intensely
this is not spanish culture in america
and to a lesser extent in australia
there's a parallel for you in australian
culture
there are these conferences where people
who are now atheists come
and they're preening like peacocks
they're so proud of themselves that they
figured something out that an
eight-year-old could have figured out
you know that god isn't real and a lot
of them not all
but a lot of them are now suddenly
trying to
cheat on their wives and do all the
drugs they never did and sleep with
prostitutes and they're they're
you know they're now trying to lead this
uh
self-destructive self-indulgent
lifestyle that is one
that is one way to respond uh part of my
own response
you know which is it's partly
intellectual and partly uh
emotional is to put huge emphasis on
creativity
you know when you've come to the
conclusion that there is nothing to be
believed in
well what next what now it's up to you
it's all on you
once you've come to the conclusion that
all authority
is mere authorship you no longer
respect or revere emmanuel kant or
nietzsche another name that came out
there you no longer respect her of your
hegel or plato
you just realized these were other guys
who sat down to write a book well what
about your book
you know what about you you know you are
suddenly now on the same level as plato
which you are by the way i mean in this
audience none of you you know there's
nothing plato new
that you guys in my audience now don't
know you can write a book
just as important as anything plato ever
wrote and you can write something that's
more important to you
and it's more important to people who
sympathize with you people who have some
fellow feeling with you
in a 19th century uh sense of word you
know so
part of my response um you know i'm not
an artist in an obvious sense of the
term
i could describe what i do as theater or
filmmaking just barely
but you know part of my response is to
really be a creative person
and that whatever i know whatever i'm
going to learn you know
it's that it's all up to me because
there's nothing to be believed in
so yeah um
[Music]
i'm sure if we if we did the research if
we get this social science
grant some percentage of people are
going to respond to nihilism by becoming
recklessly self-indulgent um and some
people are gonna respond to it as i did
by seeing
by seeing life as a whole much more as a
creative challenge
so let me put you this way if you really
believe in ideas
then you may see your life as
researching
these ideas and trying to be good enough
for those ideas trying to live up to
those ideas right
and i think a lot of us you know even if
it's not something as obvious as
christianity or mormonism
even if it's ideas that come from plato
a lot of us up to a certain age that is
how we lived our life
you know you might even have an idea of
what it is to be an athlete you know
like to be an envy like it might be
something that's not an idea in a
philosophical sense or to be a soldier
to be a man to be a good man
to be a man in an ideologically loaded
sense
and you have this idea and you're trying
to live up to it you're in service to it
so as long as you you do that the role
of creativity in your life
is merely ancillary it's merely
entertainment
right and i mean even if you spend your
life i'm you know
you know in a very intellectually
rigorous way as long as you're chasing
after other people's ideas and you're
walking in other people's footsteps
your research is is
your research is not seen in this
creative way
and then instead if you have this shift
to nihilism then it's like okay
so this is all my blank canvas this is
all my chalkboard it's all up to me and
i've only got so many years to live
so what am i going to do with this
research well i'm not doing this for
anyone else if i'm reading plato i'm not
reading plato for plato i'm reading it
for me
if i'm reading about the american
revolution i'm not reading it
for the revolutionaries i am not reading
this you know to to uh
to honor the founding fathers the united
states of america i'm not researching
the constitution
to do justice to the family politicians
i'm not trying to live up to an idea and
ideal sit down with him
i'm doing something that is in my own
way creative in my own way destructive
destiny with my life in the future so
the role for me it seems the role
creativity
um suddenly takes so much much greater
significance and i can say that honestly
i mean
i was an intellectual before i got
involved with nihilism coming back to
the original question
but when i was an intellectual before i
really became a nihilist you can say
uh creativity had a much smaller role i
didn't you know
my research wasn't creative in that
sense
it wasn't this sense of you know
play-doh
a tree i'm gonna chop down and use as
firewood
like all of this stuff this is all raw
material for me this is just my kindling
but i mean this this last six months is
a great example
i mean all of it this is all firewood
guys like
really i mean these books i'm going
through i am chopping this up and uses
very directly in writing and rewriting
and expanding my own books that's a very
clear example of that
you can imagine if you were something
like a filmmaker to
the way you might read books of history
or politics
say okay or even books about sexuality
let's say you're a filmmaker
and you want to have a character who's
gay and you're you're heterosexual
you know what you're saying it's not
it's not everything is going to be
philosophical or explicitly political
maybe you read some autobiographies from
a gay man and a gay perspective
and you you know you're thinking about
how you're going to show this in your
film
so i just say the the relationship
between research and creativity
uh i think that that really that really
changed
okay um we get some related questions
here that i've already covered thoughts
on libidinal materialism i think we've
covered that
um right so edgy intellect comments that
nihilism also rejects
knowledge and on that basis rejects uh
not
moral values it's the most radical form
of skepticism so i would i would differ
with your wording there obviously this
could be a one hour long
uh philosophical discussion but you know
um
you know it's not that the difference
between
beautiful and ugly is something that
can't be known
that's ridiculous right it's
something that can't be objectively real
and proven
right and for example what i find
beautiful
and what my gay male friend finds
it's not the same but the problem there
is not of knowledge
right it's not of epistemology right
it's of
desire so really when we're talking
about nihilism
it it's a radical recognition of
subjectivity
it's not a radical skepticism it's not
an attack on epistemology right so what
would you do so it's an attack on belief
yes and there is discussion about what
you can know but i think this that leads
to a different set of conclusions but
obviously it's not what you're saying is
somehow
far wrong it's not like you go terribly
[Laughter]
this is not like incorrectly operating a
chainsaw i mean if you include if you
incorrectly operate a chainsaw you're
going to lose an arm or a leg or some
fingers
but you know uh if you
if you incorrectly operate the
philosophy of nihilism i don't think
it's gonna take you too
far too uh terribly wrong in the too
terribly far in the wrong direction i
don't think it's gonna be a problem
so i'm stumbling on my words because i'm
reading while i'm speaking which i
uh i don't normally do
all right i got
okay a request to make a goodreads
account
listing recommended reading material
that is something i'm never going to do
and there is at least one youtube video
on my channel
that is called recommended reading is
hard to do some of this it's why i don't
do
recommended reading so when people
support me on patreon
i can advertise my people who pay one
dollar a month to support the youtube
channel on patreon
when they ask for recommended reading uh
for
books specifically relevant to their
situation i take that duty quite
seriously
but i do not believe in this culture of
just recommending a book
uh in general for all people and that's
probably because guys sorry another big
topic on my youtube channel
napoleon's younger brother how many
hours did i spend reading that book it
was
really a lot of work right now i can say
a bunch of positive things about it
i would never come on the internet here
and say oh oh you guys should also read
this
book it's really great are you are you
kidding me
i mean you know this is a this is really
a huge decision and a huge commitment
for a very pr for one person out of a
million it's worth
taking the time to read that that book
and probably i'm not that one person
probably was the wrong book uh for me to
read you know so no
um i'm very much against this culture i
would just point out by contrast
um who recommends clothing this way i'm
not here saying all you guys should buy
this shirt
you know what i mean i think different
people have to wear different shirts
you know let's get on a shirt it's five
minutes how how long is it to put on a
shirt or take it off
or if you're not happy with it throw it
in the garbage new deal we're just
talking spending a lot of hours of
focused attention reading a book
and so in the same way that i'm very
skeptical about people
playing video games for so many hours
i'm very skeptical about about reading
books
i'm not in favor of reading for the sake
of reading and i'm not in favor of
drinking alcohol
for the sake of drinking alcohol melissa
could you open the window if it's too
terribly noisy we'll we'll close it but
i think uh
i think we've got to risk it with this
dominate
all right another sorry another
interesting question i could uh go on
about she asks
why did these philosophers get promoted
just like the entertainment industry
just like the movie business there
actually are interesting stories
about uh you know um
about how particular books got promoted
and how they became famous or successful
within uh nonfiction too okay another
it's another great question somebody
asks did you finish
how to win friends and influence people
so that is a book that i am
planning to read in a chinese and
english
parallel i may read it in chinese
english and
french parallel so it's partly as a
language learning
effort and i think that could spin off a
number of youtube videos sometime a
terrible book
how to watch friends and know those
people maybe i'll make some youtube
videos joking about it or laughing about
i mean all
like i don't actually endorse the
philosophy of this book or anything like
that
but yeah um certainly as a language
exercise uh
interesting uh interesting
crossroads in the history of planet
earth the fact that that book exists
that it means so much
too much people someone here says and in
spanish too so that's
look that's part of why this book is
significant it has been translated into
every language imaginable so yeah and
someone said
here damn you can learn a lot from
reading in both chinese english that's
right it's a book that has a lot of
vocabulary about motivating people
like in english what we call modal verbs
about judging people's
mood a lot of nuanced language about
human behavior and also it's a lot about
politics
not in a deep sense but if you haven't
read the book how do i friends and
influence people like
every couple pages there's a stupid
anecdote about the present united states
of america
all the time it's like and then
president abraham lincoln
was getting ready for the biggest battle
of the civil war and he turned to his
secretary and he said
and that's how we learned the lesson
that you have to be kind to people in
order to get them to do what you want to
do
even on a battlefield but there are a
lot of it is
about relations between masters and
servants relation
relations between politicians and the
people following them commanders and
their men
there's so there's quite a bit of uh
political vocabulary that gets pregnant
too well somebody's laughing i think i
think you read it in spanish hey freda
so i think you know you know what i'm
talking about okay so we opened this
video with me just holding up that
one type of book i've been reading last
year was
about publishing a book and that a lot
of the other reading i've been doing has
been linked to my own book
no more manifestos which is presumably
forthcoming we don't know how much or
how little time i'm going to end up
devoting
to the process of getting it published
even self-publishing on amazon
is a somewhat time-consuming commitment
to meg
but sure even if it's with a small
independent publisher in canada
i guess it would be nice to have it
emerge into the world as a real book
as opposed to something that is frankly
not a real book
now talking about creativity and
nihilism you know something else i've
been reading that you guys might not
realize i've been spending time doing is
i've purchased a bunch of books
about being a filmmaker and these vary
between
bad and terrible it's going to hold up
some of these books do not take my
holding the book up as
an endorsement
all right so this is obviously a
textbook used in film schools so to
speak there's any you got a lot of paper
uh for your dollar here this is 882
pages including the index
and the endnotes or what have you the
filmmakers handbook
so if you want more exercise you want to
carry something in your backpack
as you run up and down stairs that's the
one to get
it's certainly one i can praise the most
it's it's not uh it's not fluff it's not
nonsense
this is an absolutely terrible book that
has positive reviews all over the
internet i wonder if the author
uh kelly schwartz has successfully
carried out some kind of conspiracy to
give this book positive press
i i got the refund on this book normally
if you return a book to amazon they ask
you to send it back in the mail in this
case they said just keep it
we'll refund money i asked for a refund
for that one straight up
and oh where is it now there's another
book that was actually
recommended to me by a filmmaker oh i
don't have any on this which is also
terrible
there was another really terrible book
about how to write a screen
their book that was actually recommended
to me by a filmmaker oh i don't have any
on this which is also terrible
there's another really terrible book
about how to write a screenplay
i guess i guess given that i'm saying
it's a terrible book it doesn't matter
whether i
whether or not i hold it up oh that's
not around all right uh but
actually uh ally to breezy you guys have
been watching for five years
well remember ali tabrizi but vegan
youtuber ali tabrizi who has now become
a somewhat successful filmmaker he had
his first film
finally come out on netflix and he and i
do talk and i have known each other for
all these years
and he does uh he does yeah so sorry
someone said the screenwriter's handbook
yes that's the book
i could have melissa run around and find
it but it's not worth it you don't need
to see the cover
right so i it was a screenwriter's
handbook uh that was
maybe this is ali tabrizi and then maybe
that's you is that you ally uh
um ali tabrizi used to be a vegan
youtuber he was very successful as a
vegan youtuber
but he took about five years to make a
maybe four year no five years before
yeah yeah yeah it's like f
yeah honestly another thing about it it
might be six years
anyway it was a long time he but he took
something like five years to make a uh a
documentary that's now on netflix
which is called was it fish spirity
sees um he made c-spiricy which i've
i've posted a relatively negative
uh film review of on my channel anyway
um
ali tabrizi's interesting guy i'm not
gonna say anything secret about him or
disclose anything from our secret
conversations
everything i'm going to say about him
you could know just by reading
interviews with them or putting his name
into google or looking around
the internet but you know he is a guy
who never went to film school
and he has no university education
whatsoever so he has no higher level
education
so i was interested in his perspective
on going to film school and being a
filmmaker
i was tempted to commit to going to film
school like immediately
like starting just this september i
thought about that seriously
with kind of the worst case scenario
being i could take what i learned in
film school and apply it
to improving the youtube channel that
can be applied to this book also right
like i could
read this book or the most useful
sections of this book and i could just
apply this to improving my youtube
videos still time consuming
and this would still be many hours of
work relative to the hours of putting
into
chatting with you lovely people now you
know um
yeah so i think that question's a few
minutes behind
frida asks is that the guy who made the
netflix documentary exactly
but yeah this is another type of boring
book i wouldn't really do a
book review video on but reflects a lot
of the questions i've been asking myself
about my
um one of the things i mean contrasting
youtube to formal filmmaking
and the question of how can i ever earn
a living this kind of thing in
filmmaking or otherwise
i think you know at age 42 and i'm 42
now in case you guys didn't know
you know most young people go into film
with the jejune assumption that other
people are going to solve their problems
for them
that somebody is going to make them a
star that somebody is going to give them
an opportunity
and when i look at filmmaking i look at
that being a life in which i'm very much
alone
in which nobody's gonna help me with
anything in which i'm gonna have to do
everything for myself
which you know in some ways can be
positive right now i'm writing a book
and that's a very lonely profession uh
if i became a painter
painting pictures is a very lonesome you
know occupation too
uh but filmmaking is a social art form
and if you're going into it as a
middle-aged man or an old man
if that's the transition you're looking
to make part of the challenge is that
awareness like well i'm going in alone
nobody's going to help me nobody's going
to make it easy for me
i do have a very strong aesthetic
sensibility that i would bring to
filmmaking i'm a strong sense of
direction and purpose that you know
could
you know uh could serve me well
in filmmaking and the vast majority of
people whether they're on the writing
side
screenwriting you know writing for the
film industry or filmmaking
they lack those qualities that i've got
that i can pour into youtube i can form
writing books i can pour into writing
non-fiction essays for university um
[Music]
so yeah i do think i have some skills
and qualities that are rare and in
demand
in hollywood or in filmmaking broadly
speaking
but you know to go into a social
art form like that to go in alone
and you know to say
it's one thing as a writer or as a
painter to say i'm going to be the best
i'm going to do it alone it's one thing
to be a bodybuilder bodybuilding is a
sport you can do alone
right it's just you and the weights and
the steroids you know what i mean
but if you're talking about a team sport
you rely on other people
no matter how hard you work you can't
win
in a team sport if other people let you
down and it's very scary to rely on
something that's unreliable
it's very disappointing to rely on
someone who's unreliable
so to put yourself into that situation
and then work with other people who are
not talented and focused and determined
and motivated the way you
are and to know that your success or
failure is going to rely on all those
other people that's even you're starting
with the team who make the film
after the film is finished the other
people you rely on to
promote it and i should get get it into
even one film festival
you know um this is very scary indeed so
that's a big difference
between making youtube videos and uh
making films oh and i guess i should i
guess i should shout out this book i
could probably find the page and read it
this is a terrible book i got the refund
don't buy this book
but there were a couple sentences in
here about the money side of the game
about how much money
you can and can't make in filmmaking and
the first thing i'm so part of the
argument
is and you'll see this in other books
too you'll see this on the internet oh
well um
it's still kind of sort of impos it's
still it's still kind of sort of
possible to make money
out of um amazon
amazon has this streaming service it
competes with youtube whatever
and uh and then sort of a few paragraphs
later it's like oh no it's not anymore
oh yeah that only lasted for a couple of
years tragically when you look at the
numbers
um it really does seem like there's more
money in youtube
than in conventional filmmaking and
there is very very little money in
youtube
so it's part of the you know process of
the internet transforming culture
and then culture transforming itself
through the mirror of the internet
it has never become it's part of me in
the history of the world it has never
been easier
to make a film and share it with others
it has never been easier to write a book
and share with others however the
financial incentive for you to publish
your book or for
someone else to publish and promote your
book that has largely disappeared that
has evaporated you're getting book
publishing
operating on a non-profit basis and it
seems that for most filmmakers too
the money has really disappeared from
the game so and of course
one of the differences is you know
minimum you need to spend forty thousand
dollars
making a film even if the small cheap
independent film to play in
film festivals and i do not need forty
thousand dollars to make
youtube videos so yeah
um this i think this gives you a
comprehensive explanation
of why i purchased these books and again
there are a couple others around i don't
i don't have here
why i was thinking about going to film
school but why this is also
largely disappeared as a priority for my
own reading list
now you know i've also set out have adam
braided
the factors that would make me
optimistic
what if i knew about a film school that
was really great and where tuition was
at a reasonable
price my okay i can go to this film
school and i can really learn what i
want to know and i can
maybe meet other talented people i can
work with what if i knew just
five people in this audience right now
who
were gonna get into film filmmaking with
me you know what i mean i
you know i mean you could have a circle
of people you could know just
one incredibly attractive person and
think this is going to be the next
maryland monroe or this could be
this is going to be the next johnny depp
there's a guy who got by on the shape of
his face
and okay you and me kid i'm going to
make you a star there could be just one
other person you work with where you
feel they have the star
quality actually greg's gonna be a
comedian what if you knew one person who
was really funny
you think okay i can i can make the film
around this person or there's this one
you know i can handle i can't have the
lighting and sound
but you know i i don't i don't need to
rely on anyone else other than this one
talented person
well when you got nothing when you got
nothing but yourself
and when you have no faith in the
educational establishment when you're
looking when you're looking at these
film school programs at any price even
if you pretend money doesn't matter and
you think i would be wasting years of my
life for nothing
which by the way is what all the
professors tell me right which is
probably
what all the filmmakers i talked to tell
me is film school is a total waste your
time money and then even the professors
i talk to they're like oh no no just
learn it on youtube
so youtube is apparently the alpha and
omega of everything in our in our
culture on the 21st century
this is indeed uh very disappointing uh
perspective to have to
have to adopt all right guys so look uh
it's fine i'm just turning to the
audience every so often
oh oh there's a there's a simple but
deep question
are you going to make another video on
xinjiang
in the future i will have you know i
have had clips on xinjiang
sitting in my editing software unused
for
at least a full year recently i reminded
melissa of just how long ago it was that
we ordered the stack of books
okay let's let's flex the books babe why
don't you run around and get
say the three or four major books we got
on xinjiang oh i could i could stack
this pile up real high if we had the
books on xinjiang
so we started this xinjiang research
project for a number of reasons
part of what we're planning to do yeah i
know i don't know some of them are in
the other room it's going to take
no rush babe no rush um part of what
we're trying to do with the research
project which is going to be obvious
even in the titles of these books that
hold them up
was to reframe the history of xinjiang
in central asia if you like to present
xinjiang
as the place where china meets central
asia and to understand what's happening
now in xinjiang
better in the political context of both
the history of china and the history of
central asia which nobody does
so um each of these books certainly has
advantages and disadvantages i'm not an
uncritical fan
of any of them this is inside central
asia
but a guy named dilip hiro so again
central asia you know normally people
say china is
east asia well the most densely popular
populated part of china is east asia
right i mean
but yeah china includes a significant
part of
central asia um so you know
china also comes up to the border of
southeast asia that's where i used to
live china has a border with
laos and myanmar and they're very much
involved with life in thailand
they don't have a border with thailand
but still all right um
yeah so again this is probably i'm i'm
not gonna hate on this book and i
haven't read it myself
but yeah a book probably both of us will
have criticism of when we get the end of
it
but an important book on an important
topic holy war in china
muslim rebellion and state in chinese
central asia
here's the key phrase 1864 to 1877
by hodong kim
yeah and here's a single topic book
slavery and empire
in central asia by jeff eden
is there slavery in there and uh yeah
china marches west so just just to
mention one really uh important aspect
of this book and i mean
something important that comes out of
understanding the history of xinjiang no
matter even if you're working from
wikipedia articles so you just want to
read a little bit
you know i think one of the biggest lies
in the history of china
um and these are lies told by europeans
as well as by the chinese themselves
was that the qing dynasty was china's
moment of greatest weakness whereas
really in many ways it was
china's era of greatest strength now
it's not for no reason at all
that the qing dynasty is and by the way
this is ching with a q
right uh q-i-n-g uh ching
um it's not for no reason at all that
the qing
is remembered as this period of uh of
weakness
but the story promoted by the communists
also was that this is somehow
a century or more in which china was
limping along and weak and was beaten up
by the europeans
and then this leads ultimately to the
rise of communism
uh so on and so forth this is the
failure of china as a uh
as an imperial state and it wasn't
it was china's period of greatest
military strength
and their period of greatest geographic
expansion
it was a very war-like bellicose dynasty
that from a value-neutral perspective
accomplished a great deal
it massively strengthened china's
position in the world
now by contrast uh militarily and
territorially
um the song dynasty was very very weak
but it's remembered very positively it's
remembered as a golden age in china's
history
so some of these things are like that i
mean you know i'm not i'm not hating on
him it's not some conspiracy
but it's definitely um definitely a
misconception
and you know if you want to know how did
xinjiang become part of china
long story short they were conquered
during the qing dynasty so you know
again the military
strengths and weaknesses of the qing
dynasty that came up in the research i
did on yunnan
laos vietnam came up in the research
related to
japan and their border in the northeast
dealing with korea
and russia and japan they had war in all
directions all the time
but it's really not the case that this
was and it wasn't
it wasn't china's period of greatest
weakness um where they failed
to confront or deal with the europeans
and the whole i just say the whole
notion that china was destroyed by
european imperialism well guess what
china is still inhabited by chinese
people
this is the first indication of how
ridiculous this myth is
you know what if you go to australia
it's not inhabited by australians it's
inhabited by europeans the indigenous
people are now a tiny minority
of the population of australia canada is
not
inhabited by indigenous canadians so on
and so forth i mean if you want to know
what it's like when european imperialism
destroys a place
throw a dart in the world map you know
you're going to see a lot of examples
um so no the the impact that european
imperialism had on china is incredibly
trivial
compared to any other continent like
south america
how what was the impact of european
imperialism on what's now
chile or venezuela or brazil or
africa you know china was one of the
least
affected by european imperials and
across the world of course the impact
was not zero
by the way another fascinating case
study if you guys who haven't uh looked
at it
you can you know uh you can compare the
history of
thailand thailand was never conquered by
european power but of course their
history
was profoundly changed by the contact
they had with europeans
credit where credit is due so uh frieda
comments in latin america we now speak
spanish another native languages
yes the native languages are not
completely extinct
in native america native americans
it's a good it's a good verbal typo to
make the indigenous languages are not
completely extinct
um in in south america but sure this is
a very
easy index of a very easy reflection of
the extent to which that part of the
world was you know totally transformed
by a genocidal slave trading
world empire or series of competing
world empires sure
and the history of china looks nothing
like the history of
brazil so let's let's give it a
real i see people now using this word
persistence more
when talking about indigenous peoples
yeah she's mentioning zapotec now who i
thought
mayan so yeah unfortunately though freda
if you look
the main use of those languages is all
connected to catholicism
so yeah they have an indigenous language
it's pronounced you don't pronounce the
l as something like that
i'm out of practice but you know um with
a language like that
sadly most of the language speakers and
language users they're people who are
reading the bible in that language it's
all tied up in the catholic church
so even where the language persists and
there's this use of
persistence as a as an idiom uh the
culture and religion is
is gone and so on and so forth so
they've been subordinated in
another more profound way now again in
china this didn't happen
an interesting contrasting case study
would be
um south korea so if you look it up what
percentage of south koreans are now
christian
i think it is about 50 let's let's do
the fact check
okay what percentage of south koreans
are christian
oh okay well this says 29 i don't know
if i believe you
it must be uh oh
i see i see so it's like 50 of the
people
who have a religion at all are are
christian
but it's not 50 of the total population
so
that is very interesting 56 percent
say they have no religion at all so
that's interesting
however of the people who say they do
have a religion
there are more christians than there are
buddhists so that's
that has to do with the way the pie
chart breaks okay well there you go
um interesting digression but now i was
going to say the
the prominence of christianity in south
korea i think that is a
very fundamental part of why south korea
is so different from from china
but yeah i think persistence is an
interesting uh
emerging concept now to what extent a
language
persists to what extent a religion and a
culture uh persists in the the
context of genocide so babe could you
grab for me the
book with genocide in its title we have
a book here that i have not had time to
read
and i'm being honest to you i do not
know when i will have
uh time to read it so this is here's the
core function of of booktube
uh coming at you we did read and i made
a review video
more than a year ago about a book called
the other slavery
that i still um endorse this is
surviving
genocide by jeffrey osler
so the title tells you a lot about it
you know what
i can stack up another book that i
bought quite recently on top of this
citation does not mean endorsement so
just mention you know the other slavery
is a book that's very strong dealing
with the early period it's very strong
in dealing with like christopher
columbus
and about one century after christopher
columbus but it is relatively weak
as you move forward century by century
and decade by decade thereafter
now surviving genocide begins
basically with the american constitution
so it does not do anything before
the american revolution and so it is so
its strength is in a totally different
historical period now also very
important to shaping our lives today
so we made use of one chapter of this
and looking at the genocide in michigan
from michigan we don't know what extent
our futures will bring us back to
michigan
um on the great lakes and so on so yeah
for a lot of people
this might be this might seem like the
most important
historical epoch that i've covered but
for these people it wasn't
the beginning of history the fact that
this happened after the american
employees
i'm not criticizing the author unfairly
but it really is an arbitrary and kind
of false
moment to choose to start your history
of the uh indigenous genocide
years before this to really give a full
of the independence the united states of
america accomplished and then
some of these things were you know what
happened
and what the supreme court said about it
and while the newspapers but i
understand there's a certain kind of
aesthetic and uh historical unity just
dealing with that period
by contrast uh here is a book with a
very um
provocative title the barbarous years
subtitle the peopling of british north
america
yet another subtitle the conflict of
civilizations
1600 to 1675. so that really relates
directly what i just said about this
other book um
surviving genocide and by contrast the
earlier period covered by
uh the other slavery if you just search
my channel for the other slavery you'll
get the book of you i didn't
in the past might that book review might
only
be on active research in a foreign
opinion and not on about so but you'll
figure it out you'll get a link from one
channel or the other you'll see both
versus video whatever
so look i do not know if this book is
really going to be honest enough about
it
but that's really a crucial period if
you think about it
1600 to 1675. this is long before
american independence had been dreamt of
uh gage
asks can we ask you questions yes yeah
right now i'm answering a question
a lot of what i'm saying is in response
to what the audience wants to talk about
so yeah if you have something
intelligent to say
yeah um so
you know and unfortunately once in a
while i do have to ban people which is
too bad but you know comes with the
territory
i use that phrase a lot on my on my
youtube channel lately um
anyway yeah it's a so i just say this is
kind of the right
period to be asking those questions and
the author bernard baylin he was already
an award-winning
historian in his youth and this is him
as an old old man
i i think the books he wrote in his
youth are
i think he's about 90 years old when he
wrote this and i was wondering okay at
90 years old
did he now have the honesty and focus in
terms to really deal with this stuff
honestly
because it's it's hard it's hard to be
honest about i wish i look forward to
the day
when this history will be written by
chinese people what is the chinese
perspective on this
you know i mean what about a chinese
author who's not like a communist
you know mouthpiece or something you
know what i mean like what about a
chinese author who's really doing
independent research doing that and from
there
you know you know from their detached
perspective
you know really looking at really
evaluating you know the history of uh
you know uh the history of what happened
in
america so uh look i got a question here
uh from nick he likes the channel but
will i enable the comment section so
tell us a nip if you like the channel
have you ever once
looked at the description below a video
because you might not know this
every single video i upload and this has
been the case for
for many many months i don't know when i
started doing this
maybe not yet a year but every single
video i've been uploading for many
months includes in the description
quote so right after i say support the
channel by going to my patreon
the very next thing it says is why are
comments disabled on my youtube channel
here's the answer in a relatively
uplifting five minute video
so i don't know i don't know nick i
don't know if you do like the channel
i have to tell you something i think
you're lying i don't think you like my
channel
i don't think you watch my videos
because if you
watch my videos you would know i've
answered this question
i'm i'm happy to answer it again but you
know
uh what am i what am i going to say so
yeah and sam has
correctly been calling out that we we
had we had one of my most dedicated
uh trolls join the audience but
what i wish for all of my trolls is that
they grow up
and uh they grow up and get jobs you
know
i think full-time employment will solve
a lot what's wrong with them and you
know a lot of people hate me that way
you know i think having conflicts in the
workplace
having a conflict with your boss having
conflict with your colleagues
i think it will put in perspective for
you whatever hatred it is you feel
towards me
how dare this guy on youtube criticize
me or talk about politics well i dare
i dare and you know the
the often heartbreaking experience of
the workplace
well you know you know it'll help you
appreciate me and it'll help you
calibrate what it is i'm doing here with
kind of
mild and constructive criticism that i
really do offer others
i'll just say that briefly babe babe is
my girlfriend
sorry i'm not i'm not i'm not referring
to any of you in the audience
but you know um one of the factors in
understanding my parents
ego trip during my childhood too was
that
they were their own bosses right they
ran their own company
now there are some ways in which that's
humbling or whatever
but you can imagine how different it
would have been for my parents they had
a job like your dad
you know i just mean a job where you
work with
other people and you know what i mean
where you have to you have to cope with
uh
let me tell you something folks it comes
with the territory
[Laughter]
if you if you want to get on youtube it
comes with territory
uh we have other people volunteering
from the audience saying that
saying quote i'm his babe
no you're not i've never met you anyway
um
yeah i think it's interesting to reflect
in terms of my parents lives
in terms of my professors lives if you
think about your school
teachers your high school teachers
university person that none of them
dealt with that because there's a lot of
rough and double there's a lot of you
know
i just say it changes your perspective
these things that would change your
perspective on uh
some extremely provocative person uh
here on youtube like myself
and what it is what it is we're doing uh
as creative artists and researchers and
and intellectuals em
all right babe you got a choice i'm less
than anything you'd like me
give you a vote oh
oh okay all right so look all right well
i'll come to that
okay i have a lot i want to cover okay
i'm going to do this
in in order so there are some books that
i've been reading
just on my mobile phone so as heavy as
this stack of books is uh
there are other books that i've been
reading as pdfs and i've been reading on
a portable
mobile device and one of them concerns
the vietnam war
so a gun a book that is called
mcnamara's
folly so if you don't know the name
mcnamara that's one of those names that
was ubiquitous
for years and years everyone heard it on
the news every night everyone was hit
sick and tired of hearing about robert
mcnamara right
he was a major figure in american
political politics who never said
anything interesting or profound
and when he retired he kind of you know
people were eager
to have him disappear from the lexicon
of the public imagination
um but mcnamara's morons
is a slang term used for the practice in
the american military of
actively recruiting and forcing into
service mentally disabled people
so that is the sort of book that is
fascinating even if it is
badly written um the guy who wrote that
book is not a genius
there are weaknesses in the book i could
point out
to give an example it primarily deals
with
um you know
mental incompetence mental retardation
mental
disability in the american army but it
tries to
in passing also cover the issue of
recruiting
criminals into the military people with
criminal records and even
offering people the trade-off where the
judge says look we could send you to
jail
but instead you know how about we sign
you up for a tour of duty in the
military
and now that's also a very interesting
profound source of corrosion and
corruption in the american military
and it i mean it didn't just negatively
impact the war effort in vietnam i think
there's a real argument that
it could be the reason why the americans
lost the war in vietnam
i'd have to get into some details there
but yeah this was a crucial crucial
factor in how the war went
including i mean ultimately the reason
why the americans
lost the war was the public perception
of it as immoral
that's why they lost they didn't lose
militarily they weren't defeated by
superior forces or numbers
nor by strength of opposition from the
soviet union by the way the soviet
position was kind of ambivalent
ambivalent and ambiguous on this and
china's position also by the way
um so it wasn't it was neither the
strength of opposition from vietnam
nor china nor russia added on to
uh vietnam the americans lost the
vietnam war the
americans gave up and quit when they did
uh
because of uh okay i'll stop i'll
i will pause to delete more uh
delete more or disruptive and stupid
comments
all right well i mean you know otherwise
i'm just letting you guys know i am
seeing i i am seeing uh
these comments as they have and if
anyone's saying anything intelligent i'm
happy
to interrupt the floor what i'm doing to
address it so uh not show comments that
this was lbj's idea of a psychological
experiment
um so it's not that it was a
psychological experiment it's that it
was a social experiment
the theory was that this would result in
the upliftment of the poor and the
disadvantaged and the other
undereducated and the mentally disabled
that this would actually give them
careers and a better prospect for the
future
so you're right it was an experiment
but both the purpose and the delusion
involved the type of optimism involved
so and so forth
it's not what you might first expect
again this is why it's a book worth
reading
and by the way i think it's 9.99 on
amazon so to get that
if you're willing to read off your
mobile phone which i was for this book
it's not a lot of money and it's not a
lot of time
um all right i'm sorry with digressions
i do kind of forget
uh where was i left off right so i was
just going to say in terms of the
shortcomings of the offer author
it is true this is a major reason why
the americans lost the war it's a major
reason why
the sense of moral purpose the vietnam
war was
discredited why it ended the way that it
did and why then american support for it
stopped
first publicly and then politically like
first the common people
and then you know uh in the senate and
the congress ultimately and they
canceled
the war so that is that is how the war
ended um it's also true this had
tremendous
uh long-term knock-on effects for uh
the way military service itself is
perceived in the united states of
america
so the author doesn't make a
particularly powerful case for this he
just says it very very briefly
but he says that you know the vietnam
war and this
practice of recruiting in this way
pressing people into service against
their will
and so on um
it gave everyone in the population the
sense that
military service was for inferior people
intellectually inferior people
economically inferior people that is for
people who couldn't get out of it
that anyone who was wealthy enough to go
to college wouldn't serve in the
military that had a profound effect on
american culture
the concept of college deferment um the
the idea that the military service was
for low iq people for poverty certain
people
uh for people who couldn't you know one
way or another have a
good reason that they're doing something
else with their lives like getting a ba
in english literature or something
you know that this profoundly changed
attitude towards the military which i
think is something that continues this
day and is and is tremendously important
however by that same token the
recruitment of criminals
is just as important as the recruitment
of uh low iq mentally disabled people
and that's an example for
coming in this book he's very in a very
brief and shallow way he tries to say oh
yeah and then also
there's this criminal element but that
could be a whole book in itself or could
have had several chapters that were
really well researched and detailed
uh in uh in dealing with that
so yeah now i have a segue here to a
book i haven't read yet and that is
actually on my
wish list for amazon so if you click on
that link i've just posted
um uh i i do i bought most of the books
you see here there
maybe there's one or two books here that
were given to me as gifts by readers
actually i could i could thank my
readers for that
um but there's a book there about the
milai massacre uh so the mililani
massacre is a massacre in
in vietnam it was a passage in the in
the vietnam war
of tremendous historical significance
because it really was this turning point
in discrediting
the vietnam war in the eyes of americans
and i said that is how the americans
lost they lost because they lost the
sense of moral purpose
that this was a war they could win and
should win and that democracy
was something worth fighting for in
vietnam which is a very hard case to
make
it's very difficult to convince
americans that they should be fighting
for democracy in a place as remote as
vietnam most americans don't want to
fight for democracy in mexico
they don't seem to give a damn about you
know haiti uh the caribbean i mean
places that are right next door to
america
they're remarkably cavalier about so to
really make a case for there being a
moral purpose
the milan massacre was a crucial part of
that sorry so the melamesca was a
crucial part of discrediting
the sense that this is a morally
positive war that americans should win
so something that is touched on briefly
in this same book
mcnamara's morons sorry it's actually
called mcnamara's folly
but anyway the term used though the book
is mcnamara's morons i guess he wanted
to have a less provocative title
uh is that actually the the man
most responsible for that massacre at
the miele massacre
he was himself an example of one of
these low iq
individuals he was to some extent a
mentally disabled person
he wasn't just stupid or cruel or angry
or something
so it it briefly quotes uh court
records court evidence from the i guess
they were inquiries
they were both inquiries and a trial for
that case so i'm not sure
but he was quoting official documents
where there were military experts and
doctors coming forward and say this was
a man who should not have been in
in military service at all you know
somebody wasn't qualified to be a
soldier someone wasn't qualified to be
in the army
um that he was so mentally disabled and
he was responsible for that massacre
so in this way you have uh a not
of very interesting issues not knot um
you know they come together and that
again
you know i don't want to sound maudlin i
don't want to sound overly
dramatic but you know america what's the
point
democracy what's the point we are
certainly now
living in the shadow of the vietnam war
in that the whole sense of what it means
to be an american
what it means to promote democracy in
the third world in asia
you know globally in africa and south
america to really say
yes we are certain it's not just better
for us
if you don't have a dictatorship it's
better for you the people of vietnam
should have the freedom to criticize
their own government in newspaper
articles
they should have the freedom to elect
government officials so and so forth you
know these are these are not
luxuries only for white people in europe
to enjoy or white people in america
enjoy
this is selling for everyone and it's
something worth killing and dying for i
mean that ultimately there's a price in
blood
you want democracy in syria make it
happen you know you want democracy in
vietnam
you know those basic questions and how
they relate fundamentally
to what it means to be an american in
the 21st century and then it gets even
worse when you talk about western europe
what does it mean to be a german in the
21st century that's hard
i don't deal with that in my channel i
don't deal with german nationalist
identity
or german culture i know you're german
but i don't i mean well i think it's
hard
figuring out how to be an american think
about the situation germany is in and
france
and these other you know um you know
european powers
so yeah there were um there were a lot
of really profound questions coming out
of that
and if you guys want me to read the next
book in that series i'm sorry not that
it's the series it was just linked in my
own
mind i've given you there the link to my
amazon wish list
and that book on the milai massacre i
listened to a podcast
it was i think more than an hour long it
was an hour and 30 minutes long or
something interviewing the author of
that book at some length
it's a short book i think maybe 250
pages really
for academic nonfiction that is a very
short book and he
he really tried to put together in a
neutral objectively accurate
case the facts of exactly what happened
he went through all the primary source
documents
i can't praise the book because i
haven't read it but
i can certainly say based on the uh
based on the interview i heard with him
he was sincere in his intentions at
least
in uh in trying to set that down for for
the historical record so that we could
know once and for all what really
happened and why with the military
so i'll say about that very briefly you
know um
it's very easy to oh someone in the
audience said that's correct
project 100 000 was the name of the
program so yes
michael vervata that was the name of the
program known
in slang as mcnamara's morons it
involves much
more than 100 000 people and part of the
problem is that the recruitment of
mentally deficient people
went outside of project 100th house so
you learn about that if you read this
book
so yeah there was this project but it
influenced it was part of a total reform
of how military recruitment worked
that went way outside of just project
1000 but yeah project 1000 is a crucial
part of the story
but it's not the whole story so to give
an example michael project 1000 doesn't
explain what happened with the
recruitment of criminals
already talked about and yeah there was
a lot uh you know there was a lot more
you know
so here's a really constructive comment
from the audience
look at my big bald head i'm so smart
that's a great
perhaps you should also say look at my
stack of books
it's also very impressive there are a
lot of other parts of my body that are
impressive
only you could see them but alas this is
youtube
i have yet to start at only fans i think
uh
i think i think that's coming next
people i'm just gonna who's gonna make
production
seeing ads seeing as we haven't uh we
haven't come up with a career solution
for me
seeing as we've given up on film school
maybe that is the reason to go to film
school
maybe the reason to go to film school in
2021 is so you could have a better
quality only fans account so you can do
some kind of uh shall we say adult
filmmaking
that's don't we all so anyway um this
brings me to the next topic
i asked melissa what you want me to hear
me talk about she said
uh michael jackson's doctor so does
anyone remember the name
conrad murray i think i could have
started this but you're saying let me
ask you something i'm asking
can't what do you think when i say the
name conrad murray
conrad murray was one of those names
that was briefly famous and then
forgotten and
i remember it because of a rap song it's
a rap song you can't find the internet
anymore if you dig through
the archives of ooh god man this is
this is in the archives my own memory uh
there used to be a dj called dj white
owl he is now deceased
and he was very briefly vegan before he
died so i take it he became vegan
because he already had some kind of
illness that was knocking at his door
he would bring he died vegan though he
got on a vegan diet and then dropped
dead which is a
common pattern you know already when
you're diabetes and heart disease or
blood pressure or so far
people become vegan and it's too late um
i've only answered some of these
questions by the way i just don't want
to interrupt myself make sense but
people are saying plenty of intelligent
things thanks sir thanks for being here
and thanks for thanks for making the
comments
anyway yeah on dj white owls mixtape
somewhere there is a rap song
called conrad murray that makes his name
easier
for me to remember i had a very catchy
chorus with his name in it
conrad murray was the doctor everyone
blamed for
killing michael jackson and he wrote a
book
uh the title which is this is it i think
if you just go to amazon and search for
conrad murray you can get it
i think you can buy that as a as a
digital download for like 5.99
it's a very cheap book and i think he is
pretty much doing it pro bono
um i've read the first first so many
pages of the book i got the free preview
it's another example of digital
downloads in the age of amazon i haven't
i haven't paid the 9.99 or
whatever it costs um to download the
book
but i think in the year 2021 this is a
really meaningful story for reasons
nobody talks about
with michael jackson michael jackson's
lawyer
has been doing a series of interviews
lately including with the
notorious vlad tv here on youtube
and the truth is that the life of
michael jackson includes um
a lot of malicious prosecution from the
american government
that the same types of questions we ask
about the mistreatment of
michael brown uh so give me give me some
names of people who died
sorry george floyd the terrible
misconduct of
you know oh well don't get me started
i'm brianna taylor
i have my own dissident opinion about
being on television but the types of
questions we're asking
about the uh the justice system um
you know when you look at michael
jackson's life story
in that frame and you see him as a guy
who talked in a funny voice
you know he blamed that on hormones
those that were given to him as a child
you know
his parents kind of gave him hormones
still he could keep on looking like a
child or something like this
um i i don't even know if that's true of
course um
there are a lot of things uh michael
jackson says and you know i don't i
don't know
i don't know how to what extent he was
himself insane but anyway he was a
peculiar eccentric who talked in a funny
voice
and there was really malicious
prosecution of him his whole life
uh partly from the state and partly from
you know
people trying to get rich by blackening
his name she's getting a huge issue now
until now we're all on the internet you
know if you if
anyone who has a little bit of fame it's
easy for someone to try to cancel you or
try to claim that they're pregnant
with your baby yeah which happened to
michael jackson too and so on
uh all the things that have now become
kind of mainstream widespread
social ills that way michael jackson was
sort of a litmus days for
a litmus test for he was a case study
that showed you know these these
problems
now apparently what we have established
in
conrad murray's book are the sad facts
about who
and what michael jackson really was and
this is certainly believable
but the sad facts were that he was
heterosexual
that he was interested in adult women
not children
and that he was a drug addict and
specifically
this is very believable you've seen
michael jackson speaking he was
overwhelmed with
uh anxiety and sleeplessness on stage
for these things and that he
part of his drug addiction or maybe the
whole reason for his drug addiction
was coping with those overwhelming
sources of anxiety and this kind of
thing
so you know obviously this is a
different
picture of michael jackson that emerged
from from speculation
but it's compatible with for example
what his lawyer
is now saying about michael jackson that
that's come out and so on and his
his lawyer has been going around and
really establishing the very powerful
reasons why
the specific claims of pedophilia
against michael jackson that they that
they were fraudulent that they were
intentionally devised to make money by
individual people
going after michael jackson and also
discrediting the the case made against
him by the government things that were
kind of obviously wrong with that
now i do not like michael jackson i
don't like his music
i don't sympathize them as a person as a
personality i don't sympathize with his
lifestyle
and to say he was eccentric is an
understatement he was a very
unsympathetic character i also am not
fan
i'm not a fan of drug addiction or drug
addicts or i don't make excuses
the guy lived a life that was in many
ways dissolute and despicable
you know don't get me wrong and you know
but he was a father
to these three children that everyone
presumes he is in no way
genetically related to they were either
adopted or some other very strange
arrangement was made with these children
he pretended to be the biological father
these these children was raising
um there were a lot of things wrong with
the guy but again
my interest is kind of political and
historical
and again for the book i'm writing um no
more manifestos
i've been looking a lot at how the
american justice system doesn't work
and i actually think there are some
interesting insights there to how how
the american justice system doesn't work
how the american medical system doesn't
work
i think and it's kind of like that
question of the internet before the
internet you know what i mean
a lot of the problems that have been
brought into everyone's lives through
the internet
um you know uh yeah
we we see a kind of interesting
rehearsal of those problems in miniature
i think in the life of michael jackson
so there you go there's a there's a
there's a
book recommendation uh you know you you
might not expect me
so someone in the audience said do you
know michael jackson grew up as a
jehovah's witness
well i'll i'll give you another one do
you know that he converted to islam
so little known fact apparently forget
which one but one of his brothers
was a more sincere convert to islam and
the nation of islam
uh nation of islam is a very heterodox
form of the muslim faith
that exists in united states america and
their membership is primarily
african-americans primarily black
uh but michael jackson's religious
history
is not what anyone wants to think it was
so yeah
look from my perspective he was crazy he
was a terrible person okay
i'm not like i say i'm not a fan i'm not
here to make excuses for him
um you know but
yeah i mean in the post-donald trump era
i think there are some interesting
questions raised by this that nobody was
asking
when this you know uh news story was
what was being covered newspapers
so we have another another question here
from the audience uh edgy intellect
says doctors nowadays are giving
antidepressants for pain killing
it's encouraged by insurance companies
antidepressants are in fact much more
dangerous than opioids
okay uh look
what's the danger there's more than one
type of danger from my perspective
marijuana is a very dangerous drug
it's not going to put you in peril
of overdosing right it's not dangerous
in that sense
marijuana is also not particularly
dangerous in terms of causing a car
accident
yeah i don't recommend driving when
smoking marijuana but
to my knowledge it's been scientifically
establishment that drunk driving
is far more dangerous than smoking
marijuana and driving i remember a
scientific study that claimed the main
way people responded to driving on
marijuana was driving too
slowly again it's illegal don't do it
i'm not endorsing it but
what do you mean by danger
you know what i'm afraid of is leading a
meaningless life
what i'm afraid of is losing contact
with the meaning of life
and i think you know i think marijuana
is a tremendously dangerous drug and it
ruins so many people's lives
and marijuana ruins people's lives in
such a way that they don't realize
that they've they've uh ruined their
lives they're
they're blind to it themselves they're
so close to it but they don't see what's
right in front of their face what's
changing their whole lives that way
so i think there was a tremendously
dangerous job
are antidepressants a dangerous drug
yes are opioids a dangerous drug
yes opioids are the most dangerous if
what you mean as the danger of
sudden unexpected death and we we've
literally seen
several people die of opioid overdose
here on the streets of victoria canada
we've seen it with our own eyes
we've seen the reality of that addiction
um
you know like let's let's get real here
so edgy like i
i'm completely morally opposed to the
use of antidepressants i've made so many
videos
critical criticism if you guys don't
know there's a playlist on my channel
called anti-antidepressants
i can give you guys the link it'll delay
us here slightly if i go get the link
um however
do you think there are any prostitutes
who are performing sex acts in order to
get enough money
to buy antidepressants do you think
there are
you know burglars breaking into people's
houses
to get enough money so they can buy
antidepressants and do you think there
are people just
dropping dead from antidepressant
overdoses no so
the nature of the threat is very
different there are
opioid addicts who have become sex
workers who are locked in a life of
prostitution so that they can pay for
their
opioid addiction same with cocaine so on
and so forth you know
let's not pretend you know um i'm not
gonna lie to you about any of this stuff
don't don't like yourself but you know
look
on the level of just um uh rhetoric
you know obviously i sympathize we we
gotta care
we have to be really worried about
antidepressants and we have to be really
worried about painkillers and marijuana
too
we have to be worried not only we
shouldn't just remember this
you should not just be afraid of death
you should not just be afraid of dying
you should be worried that one day you
wake up and realize you've lived a life
that is not worth
living there is the link to my
prolex playlist of uh you know
um criticisms of uh
the culture and medicine and science
behind
antidepressants
all right i'm just scrolling through the
uh
scrolling through the comments
this so i just say um
edgy intellect says further just by the
way just intelligent interesting comment
just don't mind talk about any of this
stuff um
he says opiates are said to be more
addictive because they cause euphoria
there are objective and there are
subjective elements
to this guys uh i do not believe
that the effects of cocaine are pleasant
i don't think they can be called
pleasure
due to like uh sorry not really surgery
but i've had injuries where i was in the
hospital and i was given
opiates i do not think the feeling is
pleasure i don't think it's pleasant i
don't think it's pleasure
there's another youtuber he's a
bodybuilder
he had been an addict but he had also
received opiates you know in this kind
of medically regulated
you know he'd had injuries where he was
at the hospital and he describes it as
this amazingly wonderful
euphoric feeling that he could never you
know uh
he can never do without again or that
like if he's injured and given
this kind of drug then it brings back
the memory of how much he loves this
feeling and so
so you know there are objectively real
scientifically verifiable
aspects of this and then there are
totally
subjective unreal imaginary
aspects to it you know you could say the
same about
many factors in human life like human
beauty who was the actress you were
talking about who plays
the the the actress in all the marvel
movies
scarlett johansson
[Laughter]
you know the whole world convinces
itself that scarlett johansson is the
most
beautiful and fascinating character
she's a terrible actress
and she is not objectively a
good-looking woman
you know from my perspective that's a
case where the emperor has no clothes
and she doesn't have an interesting
personality and she's not
intelligent she doesn't have any
questions to say you know in terms of
interviews like
there is nothing fascinating and nothing
beautiful about scarlett johansson
but you know we clothe her with our eyes
it's way beyond beauty has been the eye
of the beholder and you know i mean i've
said this before in a very different
uh context you know water does not taste
delicious
except when you're thirsty you know i
mean food is not delicious except
for a stomach that lacks it has stomach
that yearns for it hungers for it you
know what i mean
if you're thirstier enough plain tap
water is the most
delicious taste so all these things they
arise you know from desire
now what is it that someone desires who
wants to feel
the way opiates make them feel you know
whereas i don't
and what i want to do is get work done
you know and for me i mean one of the
most appealing drugs i don't think it's
pleasant i don't think it feels
pleasurable
but caffeine is appealing to me because
the idea oh if i drink coffee i can get
work done
but for me actually the feeling of
caffeine is
is unpleasant it's not happiness or
pleasure or euphoria or something um
i could get into describing what that is
but
you know i want to lead a meaningful
life i want to get work done so
therefore
you know wanting to drink coffee makes
sense
i remember one guy describing to me his
first experience
smoking opium i've spoken i've met quite
a few people who smoked opium
i used to live in thailand laos and
cambodia you know
there were white people who go out there
to smoke opium as a part of their
tourism experience you know
and the main thing described to me is
being paralyzed
of you know not really being able to
talk or do it
you know you're in this numb state
your face is numb who would want to feel
that way now if you're gonna if you're
gonna endure
surgery of course that's a very
different thing
but who would who would perceive that as
pleasure
being reduced to this you know mentally
and physically disabled state
now you know um i met a girl
and she was a physiotherapist she worked
in rehabilitation
rehabilitation of injured people so this
is her field now that's not quite as
tough as a nursing degree i think but
it's a formal scientific
scientifically trained feel but she's
not like an emergency nurse
and she got her leg torn out of the
socket
by an elephant she went elephant riding
in thailand hashtag
not vegan and uh elephants they have
minds of their own
you know um so she had that situation
where her leg was torn out and twisted
so that it was 180 degrees the wrong way
around
so you imagine your your leg where it
fits into your bum getting
you probably did that with a toy as a
child i don't know how funny looking
that was if you twist
the leg around on an action figure so
she got the leg torn out of the
out of the socket and and inverted and
she was in a small
town a village in northeastern thailand
for the night where there was no
hospital and no
you know um no doctor to help her
and a traditional little old lady in the
village came out
with an opium pipe they had opium they
had you know like free range garden
not from a drug dealer just grow it in
their own gardens there
and you know gave her opium to smoke and
she was in a completely
blissful state she didn't feel the pain
through the night
she got through the night and then first
thing in the morning they took her to a
hospital in whatever the nearest city
um when i met her she was walking
she was hobbling but you know i mean
she'd still it was a serious injury
obviously
but you know you can recover i don't
know if she'll ever be in the olympics i
don't know long term how serious the
cartilage damage is or something but she
was okay i mean she didn't lose her leg
or something she didn't lose the ability
to walk firmly
and that was her field ironically she
was an expert in exactly that field
that kind of rehabilitation so she was
teaching herself you know to walk again
but i'm just saying you know
um you know uh
[Laughter]
what is pleasure and what is pain what
is
you know what is sexually attractive
what is beautiful what is appealing
these things
and by the way there was a comment here
from the audience saying that from
someone who finds that
caffeine makes them sleep that is
another scientifically documented thing
so frida says caffeine doesn't
uh purcha you know what i mean that you
know
caffeine for her is something and i i
can relate to that too
um one of the times i was on a zero
caffeine diet i try in general to drink
zero caffeine and then i make exceptions
if i have a cold or i have jet lag or
something
but i aspire to lead a zero caffeine
life
but the calming and drowsy feelings of
caffeine are also
uh documented even though they are
paradoxical
and yeah um many drugs are like that
there's more than one more than one
element to them
and we have to ask to what extent what
we're experiencing is subjective and
what's in something else
so someone says that they love the
aesthetic of jar drinking
and someone else asks why are you
drinking from a jar like what what is
the point to this
i do not feel that drinking from a jar
has a point
i do not feel that this is a thesis i am
pursuing i don't
i do not feel there is anything i am
trying to prove
by drinking from a job
perfectly perfectly reasonable question
i do not feel this shirt
makes a statement but if i were sitting
here bare chested that would make a
statement that i don't want to make
therefore i'm
i'm wearing a shirt but no uh not not
everything in my life
has this uh this quality of being a prop
to demonstrate my philosophy i guess
this whole video without getting i guess
we are repping some brands in the
background
we got we got uh an endorsement here
from unico black beans and we got
corn pops on the other side so there's a
point to that let me tell you if you
want to unravel unravel the riddles of
my my daily life
um yes so there's another question here
about uh or comment about
benzodiazepines
yes um benzodiazepines are a
tremendously dangerous drug
i don't have a separate playlist for
that on my channel
but if you search for the word benzo and
that's it yeah it's a very hard word to
spell benzodiazepine
um you will find i've made several
videos talking about that
and that is truly at epidemic
proportions the there's an epidemic of
illegal
benzo use and there's also an epidemic
of legal benzo use that is one of the
defining
social political medical crises of our
times there's absolutely no
uh no doubt about that so yeah uh chulu
asks
you describe yourself as having
undertaken various research projects
as part of your process of
sophistication
how do you select these projects oh god
what a question
okay i'm going to keep it all the way
real with you uh ctulu
you know i remember when i was with my
blonde
ex-girlfriend so i referred to her as
such she's come up in
various anecdotes of the channel so my
blonde ex-girlfriend was someone who
fell in love with me when we were both
in high school
and i think we kissed a few times in
high school but we weren't
really boyfriend and girlfriend or maybe
we dated for two weeks or one week or
something
we weren't really involved in high
school and then at the end of university
um i we got seriously involved in a
commitment relationship
so she's someone from that period of my
life who then transitioned over
to the next period of my life she came
with me to thailand
and then laos so she was a significant
part of my life i was a significant part
of her life
terrible person despicable human
terrible person
[Laughter]
really and i i totally regret that i
ever got into that relationship with her
but she loved me and um at that time
i felt that that counted for a lot
uh she asked me a different question
that got at
the same answer and you know
this question of how is it you select
what you're doing whether it's
like if you say philosophy or you say
politics well what you're doing isil
is specific it's got a point it's got
there's some like these are these
specific research projects
you know they build up like different
bricks in the wall but how do you choose
to do this particular thing
in philosophy or politics and at that
time this is in my last year of
university
i said to her when you pass someone on
the sidewalk and you see them
running you have no reason to assume
that they know what it is they're
running toward
and you have no reason to assume that
they know what it is
they're running away from all you know
is that they have made the decision
to run you know
some of us are standing still
i'm running i don't know if i'm going to
cambodia
i don't know if i'm going to become a
buddhist monk i don't know you know
i don't know at that time i don't know
where i'm going or why
but you know it's i'm not going to stay
here it's not
this this is not enough for me this is
not good for me
and i said to her further at that time
so i mean again this isn't true with me
now
this changes at a certain point in my
life and i think for many of you in the
audience you can reflect on this change
in your life too
um you can only understand what i'm
doing through negation
you have to understand in terms of what
it is i'm running away from
you know what it is i'm refusing to do
what it is i'm refusing to be a part of
you know not this
this is not good enough for me what it
is i can't compromise with
right this kind of thing so yeah in the
canadian context of toronto
in the year 2001 2002
right that made a lot of sense in my
life like why are you reading this
why are you working so hard on this
particular philosophy or this particular
language or what have you
you know it was really through
[Music]
negation you know um it's really
what i refuse to converse with the
refuse to be a part of and
there's there's a lot of negation you
know my parents were communists
well i figured i had to totally reject
communism well you know
my country was canada i reject genocide
and the whole british empire tradition i
reject so much
about what canada is and i've got to
figure what i'm doing so up to a certain
point
you know it's it's going to be what
you're running away from
not what you're what you're running
towards and um
you know i mean i think i think another
time in my life to question that way
would be after i divorced
uh my first wife sorry i can't say
divorced illegally after we got
separated and began the process of legal
divorce and she refused to divorce me
and refused
to receive the divorce documents for
years and years
but after i started the process of
trying to divorce my wife when i was
alone
then again you have a period where
there's all this activity
a lot of which you can see on youtube
there's some reflection of it on youtube
you know i'm not i'm not uploading
everything i'm reading in those years
but you can see it and it's like okay
i'm not going to be a scholar of
buddhism
i'm not going to do this like i know
what i'm not going to do anymore i've
given up on being a scholar buddhism
i've given up on being a scholar of cree
or being an activist for the korean
ojibwe first nations indigenous people
i know a lot of things that i'm not
going to do but i don't know what i am
going to do
i don't know what's forward i don't know
what the destination is
but i'm running um it's clear to me what
i got to move out and it's clear to me
what i've got to work against
you know so for a lot of us for long
periods of our life and i started this
by saying
i'm now correcting myself so as i'm
saying up to a certain point in your
life
it's like that and then then you have a
sense of purpose and direction
um after that point but i guess that's
really not true i think that's probably
something that can happen again and
again in your life
and maybe it's really important to have
the self-discipline
to to run to strive to try hard
even when you don't have a direction and
i don't just mean you're lacking
a clear sensitivity when you're certain
you don't have one
you know you're not agnostic you're
gnostic you know
you know you don't have a way forward
but you're still going to find a way
you're still going to do something
and you know what you've got to move
away from you know what's going to be
naked
i guess now that i think about it that's
something that could happen to you in
your 20s 30s 40s 50s 60s you could find
yourself in that situation
and it's important they're committed to
still be a real real intellectual
you know yeah anyway long long but
honest answer that question
and then yeah the contrast is sometimes
sure you have a definite
definite sense of uh of uh what it is
you're doing and why
uh so stupid vegan asks was she your
only blonde girlfriend
this is debatable because the question
is do you you call melissa blonde
so you melissa you don't identify as
blonde
okay so melissa has a very peculiar
intermediate color hair you call that
brown
okay well i mean i come from a jewish
family your hair is not
the same color of brown that we in our
family called brown
i will say i think i think uh melissa
could be considered the dirtiest of
dirty blondes is this sort of
there no it's this very interesting
intermediate color that's
yeah um no i i like it it's my it's my
sure it's my favorite you know oh it's
you oh
the first day we were together we talked
about that yeah sure
no i really did like your coloring and i
felt that our coloring was actually not
captured in photographs
i saw our photographs we talked via
skype before we met in person and then
that person
wow this is very interesting no i mean
your eyes too
are peculiar so what what eye color do
you identify with
i think my license is hazel
okay because again i would describe your
eyes as being like off blue
like blue but not really blue so anyway
i just said she has kind of
i'm gonna have to sneeze guys commercial
break while i sneeze
talk amongst yourselves um
so yeah it is certainly um uh it is
certainly debatable
uh whether or not uh she was my only
blonde girlfriend
present company uh included so now we've
solicited a bunch of
compliments about how beautiful
melissa's hair is so that's good
all right oh so this is telling so
someone says in mexico
in mexico melissa would be considered
blonde oh
so there you go um for whatever reason
someone's asking
what about blonde jews i guess there are
some but i'm just saying i grew up in a
jewish family where our concept of uh
of what is brown hair was very different
from what's this concept but
i did not make the claim that there are
no jewish people who are blind if you if
you go to israel you will meet
african jews you will meet people who
are members of the jewish
faith and jewish ethnos of quite a
remarkable variety of people
but yeah okay
so look um i got a lot to say what i
would talk about next
uh so yeah i the light motif for this
video we gotta wrap up sometime
but you know for me this is the video
where i was talking about books i had
been reading
that were bound up with this large-scale
effort of writing and publishing my own
book
however i admit i could do several more
live streams
on that topic even just talking about
the books that i had read in the past
but for those of you who have stuck with
me all this time i know a lot of my
viewers listen to my stuff while they're
doing the dishes or while they're
uh on the stairmaster or exercising the
gym or something
um you know it's interesting to note
that the books i read
immediately before starting to write
no more manifestos were voltaire's
candide
and voltaire's english letters so here
the
the title is given as philosophical
letters it oh so it does actually say
that
philosophical letters or letters
regarding the english nation this is
commonly known as the english letters by
voltaire
and candide which are both kind of
terrible books i can say a little bit
more with them these are not books i'm
going to recommend or
or indoors or something um so was it
before or after that i read
cola duran's though i forget if those i
thought it might have been after
yeah right so that was this is also an
interesting book i've written about this
little bit on patreon from my patreon
followers
um interesting historically significant
vote it's part and parcel
now you know um
okay voltaire is linked to
so many things that have come up in the
research this book in different ways
but inspiration can be positive and
negative i've got to tell you something
i read voltaire's
work and i really felt like this is
trash
i could write better this week like if i
wrote a book in one week i could do
better than this
and why don't i like part of it really
was this sense of the will to out do and
the will to overcome
i thought well i can do better than this
now
to give credit to voltaire voltaire is a
positive inspiration
in that he is an example of a man whose
ideas really did
change the world and they are not
cerebral ideas these are mostly
emotional ideas the main impact voltaire
has on his audience is just that he
really cares about this stuff he doesn't
even know anything about this stuff
you know so voltaire there's a very
moving scene about
slavery and it's specifically black
slavery africans enslaved in south
america
he's he's somewhere like venezuela or
columbia i think it's
anyway he's somewhere in south america i
forget if the geography is clear because
he visits a kind of magical wonderland
in south america
it's eldorado type fantasy at one point
in the story
but anyway he encounters the the
terrible brutality of
slavery he talks about the unspeakable
brutality of torture
and rape and war in europe at that time
and look it's terrible book
it's really poorly written it's really
poorly argued
it has nothing going for it
except there is this rambunctious
passionate sense that he really cares by
the way the conclusion is terrible
at least the second half of the book is
terrible like like at the beginning it
seems like it's kind of organized as a
point it just
disintegrates into total aimlessness um
there's a lot wrong with with voltaire's
candide
but i mean it's on i think it's on many
people's reading lists or greatest
intellectual confidence so i really
followed up uh
reading candide immediately by starting
on the manuscript
for no more manifestos which is in part
a response to the political conditions
that were unique to the year 2020
which includes authentic examples of
police brutality
and also inauthentic examples of police
brutality people kind of making up
stories about police jobs some of which
have been covered on my youtube channel
and then all these from my perspective
really profound and fundamental
questions about politics
not just in the united states america
but around the world come out of that
now the book has grown in scope and
depth and it's about much
more than police brutality but that was
the intellectual context
so also as soon as i finished uh
voltaire's candide when you're reading
that book has this
quality that many of you will know from
music or movies
um when someone has already become
famous
and they they know the audience
sympathizes with them or supports them
or will come you know what i mean like
he he knows he can lean on your patience
when he writes this
he is already the great and famous
voltaire the great and famous
you know author and respected and
esteemed
and you know there's going to be some
political and philosophical significance
to it he's kind of established his name
as a political dissident and a
philosophical writer
and he's famous so you know again um
talk about any american comedian when
they made their first movie or were
doing their first standard
when they really have to work hard to
get your attention and get you to listen
and convince you that they're going to
tell you something worth listening to
that's very different from their seventh
movie when they're an established actor
so the main reason i then turned to
looking at the english letters was that
this was voltaire's
first book it was his first hit book it
was how he made his name
as an intellectual and a writer so okay
given
the poor quality of what voltaire did at
his site how did this story begin
and it's also a terrible book it's
appallingly poorly written a lot of it
is
really stupid and really fatuous and i
could digress into i mean the few things
that kind of made it interesting in its
own historical context
so yeah i largely drew
negative inspiration from voltaire
but i mean you know credit where it's
due
voltaire was not just a political
commentator he was not just a critic
he was one of the most devastatingly
effective
political activists in the history of
the world
and his activism did not consist of
standing on the sidewalk
holding a sign right like it did not
consist of
protests you know what i mean like sorry
i've made so many youtube videos talking
about this the ideology of protesting
what it means to be a distant
intellectual
how to change the world you know a
candide
sat in his mansion and he received
guests he had a visitor's room he talked
to people one-on-one face-to-face which
is really very much similar to what i'm
doing right now with this live stream
to my knowledge she took a couple hours
every day i don't know if it was a seven
day a week schedule or five days
schedule
but he had guests people came to see him
once he was a famous author and he
influenced the world that way by meeting
with
people in groups and one-on-one whatever
five people would come to visit the
great author
and he changed the world through his
writing and he changed the world through
complaining
now again in some ways a positive
example in some ways a negative one
there's a very interesting dotted line
between
voltaire and jean-jacques rousseau with
um boswell in the middle
so this is the boswell who was famous
today as the biographer of
samuel johnson um but i just say if you
look into it
um you know one of the most
politically consequential things
voltaire did
was that he lent his name and his fame
to this young upstart writer boswell who
had accomplished absolutely nothing in
his life he had
no fame he had no publications uh he was
a young man who had so far done
nothing but as well and he was trying to
get famous and he went to
voltaire and he went to jean-jacques
rousseau he met them in person
and he got their blessing and
endorsement to go
and visit the island of corsica that had
then set up a rebel republic
and this is one of the most momentous
influential and consequential events in
the history of the world
and it's important because of what
people said about it and what people
wrote about it i think it is worth
asking what if boswell
had never visited corsica maybe it
wouldn't have mattered
i mean napoleon still would have been
born and raised in corsica and would
have lived in the political aftermath of
that
uh another interesting question what if
napoleon's book on the history of
corsica had been published and been hit
um you know because it wasn't it
disappeared to my to my knowledge it's
not extinct at all today some people say
there are a few chapters or a few pages
of it
that exist but it's basically unknown
but napoleon also tried writing a book
uh based on the political history of
course to pursue his own fame
well it could maybe that would have been
the hit instead of boswell or something
um but anyway the uh the relatively tiny
nation state of of corsica they had
their own
attempt to revive uh ancient greco-roman
concepts of democracy at that
time which probably should be much less
important
than the history of democracy in venice
for example
but precisely because of the charisma of
boswell in writing this bizarre book
about it that i have also read
very recently in in the research uh for
writing my own book
um and because of the fame led to the
project by voltaire so you had these
three names coming together
and all three became incredibly famous
names at this time boswell isn't famous
yet
you have voltaire and russo and boswell
and then uh corsica and paulie
is the leader of corsica and this really
did
change the world so something i've just
been writing about um in the book
is the importance of the idea that
change
is possible you know the political
progress is
possible so i shouldn't say progress
progress is an ideology change
is an objective fact you know this is
not about optimism or pessimism right
here where i'm living in canada
everyone thinks they're happy here in
victoria
victoria british columbia capital canada
they think they're living in the
greatest country in the world and in the
greatest city
in the greatest country in the world
there is no no one thinks they're
oppressed
no one wants to change the government
nobody wants to write a new constitution
there's no dissent
you know people here have the illusion
that they're happy
but they also live with the much deeper
hopelessness
that nothing is possible there is no
change this is the only life that's
possible
this is the only kind of political
establishment that's possible for them
um nothing can change so there's no
point complaining about it
do we have democracy in canada no not
really no there's really no democracy at
all
what do you want to do about it well
nothing's going to change so what's the
point
you know canadian constitution is
terrible our canadian court system is
terrible our police system is terrible
oh well is it as bad as some other
country you could name you know well
the point is ultimately even if people
are not pessimistic they may think of
themselves as optimistic they'd be very
happy with their lives
they live with this deeper sense of
resignation
to the impossibility of political change
i just mentioned this book
specifically candide by voltaire
this book is totally hopeless about the
possibility of living in this in this
book when he wrote this or were just
judging this book
as an idol unto itself judging it in
isolation
there was no possibility of anything
better for europe his conclusion of the
book depressingly is that you should
just
tend your own garden that you should
literally should just raise vegetables
in your own garden and put your time and
energy and effort into that
into things you can control on this
small scale because the whole world is
dominated by war torture
rape this terrible slavery these
terrible things that he's talking about
and by the way you get also he really
goes after the catholic church
um catholics burning witches at the sta
stake and that stuff catholics torturing
and executing people
um that's in there in a big way but his
perspective is the whole world
is terrible and in much this way and
nothing's going to change there's
nothing there's nothing you can do about
you to make a change
now of course one century later think
think about how much the world had
changed
in one century after the publication of
candida he was wrong
everything can change you know what i
mean but
what happened with this and i do not use
the word cooperation these people hated
each other
jean-jacques rousseau hated voltaire
voltaire hated john jack russo and
voltaire tried to destroy
john jack russo really it was brutal
what they did to each other um
well i to my knowledge all the blame is
on i don't even know if whosoever did
anything back to voltaire and
honesty i think it's all one way i think
it's it's asymmetrical
but what these three personalities
managed to do in
concert without cooperating uh voltaire
rousseau and boswell was to really
say to everyone in europe something else
is possible something better is possible
and most powerfully of all
it's both brand new and it is ancient
you know is this partly reaching back to
ancient greece and rome
and this is partly something new and
different you know something you ain't
never heard of before something you're
not already bored of
of hearing hyped up if you have any
doubt
about how much of an influence this had
on the american revolution
and in the history of america it's
something that is in some ways connected
to england but in some way separable
right go to google maps right now and
type in
powly p-a-o-l-i
and you tell me how many towns there are
in the united
named after pasquale paulie pauli
p-a-o-l-i
the revolutionary leader he was the
generalissimo
in charge of this new republic in
corsica
so yeah what could have been a trivial
and quickly forgotten political event in
the history of the world
the emergence of this new republic on
corsica
certainly the way it was written about
in english
boswell wrote in english he didn't write
in latin he didn't write in german
things would be different if really the
whole issue of germany would have been
different what if
there is a good question would have been
three german intellectuals publishing in
germany
who did this you know but no um
these things were they did influence
germany also but not
as powerfully as they influenced england
in the united states
this this really did change the whole
world in the next 100 years
so if you think you can't change the
world by complaining about it you're
wrong
voltaire the ultimate the ultimate
whiner
you says briefly um
something my ring has really made me
intensely aware of you know
um there are some myths about
political history uh that people
teach their children consciously and
intentionally
there are some lies about history that
our school teachers tell us really
intentionally in school
there are some things that are silenced
and we are aware
that we're silencing them but there are
some lies we're unaware of
there's some things that happen you know
and it's not clear whoever
planned this who met yourself who first
told this lie who decided we should lie
this way
and i think that one of the biggest lies
of all
in how the history of the united states
of america is presented
and then very much in the shadow of the
american revolution
how the history of england australia
canada and keeping all the way real i
think
many western european countries their
understanding of their own history and
world history is in the same shadow
maybe some of them to a slightly lesser
extent maybe there's a little bit more
freedom of thought
in uh estonia but i doubt it you know
most of the world history has been in
the shadow of american history in this
sense and when we're
talking in this scale over over
centuries overseas how we think about
the last 500 years
um i don't think people are aware of the
extent to which they're lying
and mythologizing and silencing when
you know they presume
and assert that democracy had completely
died and disappeared from the world
before it was revived in the united
states of america
now one counter argument is what i just
talked about well what about corsica
what about voltaire what about russo
what about stuff from that era you can
go back a few more centuries
and say what about uh cola de rienzo
right another interesting kind of lily
pad in the history of despotism a little
lily pad of republicanism or
democracy more that was more
republicanism
than it was democracy but i mean among
the
among the strangest forms of bias we
have
in the history of the modern western
world is the extent to which
italy is now silenced and muted
and forgotten you would think that italy
just wasn't an
important place at all after the fall of
the roman empire
like you would think after after some
incredibly early period like
julius caesar then we just don't hear
anything about italy until world
war ii i mean i would say this honestly
um
if a chinese person or a japanese person
were to compare
the way history is now taught and
understood in america
to reality i think it would be
reasonable for them to surmise that we
have a kind of
racism against italians like
italians are silenced and deleted from
our history
in a way that the germans are not you
know what i mean
uh the role of germany in the way
western history has taught is really
much more
you know prussia and all that crap you
know sorry well again russia
sorry just two words that sounded like
prussia is one story but russia is
another
we make a big deal out of the history of
russia the history of
russia is really quite trivial in its
significance
compared to the history of italy in past
2 000 years uh but past 500 years
especially
and it's it's very strange how
kind of diminished and disparaged and
forgotten italy is see i won't go into
this video we could talk a bit more in
future
but
you know it is not a minor or fringe
view
that the history of venice really
matters you even feel that in
shakespeare
you know in shakespeare you always get
this sense that italy is a really
important place
the history of genoa really matters the
history of
florence really matters machiavelli
is much more important to the history of
european democracy
the history of american democracy
history of british democracy
and this whole book is all about that by
the way this is
okay it's not the only thing it's a huge
book there's many many views on it
um you know our
understanding of what democracy is
and where it comes from and
you know look this is kind of like if
the american constitution is a mountain
people are trying to make that mountain
look taller
by removing the other mountains from the
painting
you know what i mean it's sort of like
oh well if we
if we delete all of the other then
ongoing and continuous history of
republicanism and democracy from europe
then it seems like this sudden shocking
great accomplishment that in boston
you know they they started to write this
constitution and of course that creates
a totally incoherent
you know totally false history of the
world i think though i think without
being aware that they're lying to their
children
i think parents lie to their children
this way i think school teachers lie to
their pupils i think it is very much
presented as this
sudden decisive disruption
in the history of despotism that
americans
you know created democracy now sorry
another
way in which that's an enormous lie is
just that it
totally exaggerates the discontinuity
between the united states america and
england that the type of democracy they
had the united states of america after
the revolution
is shockingly similar to what they had
in exactly that period of time in
england
that to a very large extent the american
constitution is just an imitation
of what was at the time business as
usual in england that is a reproduction
of our carbon
copy of the british system of government
now it's not
perfectly identical but they are
shockingly similar
so the idea that america again this is
accomplished
by very much disparaging and
misrepresenting
what political conditions were at angle
in that time if you imagine that
england was this terrible despotic
tyranny that americans had to rebel
against if you imagine england was this
kingdom
if you imagine england at that time was
something like saudi arabia is
now there was just one man whose word is
law that oh yes this seems like this
great impressive accomplishment that
americans did this
so yeah i would say that um in this last
year and in this these last six months
the research i've been doing and we're
now holding up a huge stack here
um in expanding and enriching and
deepening my book no more manifestos
it's it's made me reflect on and
feel more about that you know
um that big lie
that american history is based on and
look understandably that's not the lie
most people are interested in in 2021
most people are arrested in the slavery
and the status of blacks in america
they're interested in genocide maybe the
history of indigenous people
disappearance of indigenous languages
and culture
a big one is women you know the extent
to which the american constitution was a
sexist you know the french revolution
too this is a huge issue
but the status of women the status of
black people status indigenous people
uh another it should be something like
the status of freedom of speech
definitely it's a history people have to
go back and reimagine and understand
again
so i mean if you say like well the
history that's told about the american
constitution american revolution is a
big lie
those will be the things people are
talking about but yeah um
there really is a kind of unconscious
racism i feel against
italians and and let's say this
i've just suggested to you that
americans need to believe
that england was this horrible
dictatorship at the time that they were
built against that's convenient for them
that's not true now there's very little
difference between conditions in america
and conditions in england that them
and after the american revolution
conditions in the united states of
america were dramatically
worse than conditions in england like
for that decade the first decade after
american revolution was an interesting
story
they rebelled against taxes guess what
after the revolution
their taxes tripled depending on which
state you went they either tripled or
quadrupled
you had more taxes and worse oppression
and more rebellion and
political conditions in america were
worse than they were in england effort
but you could say they need to believe
or it's convenient for them to believe
that england was this terrible tyranny
at that time and by the way
i hate the british empire i'm very
critical of the british i'm not saying
this is someone who's a
who lionizes or glorifies the british
empire but let's get real
you know um england at that time was not
a
kingdom or despotism in the same way
that even saudi arabia is today it's
just that's just not true that's a myth
and if you were walking around the
streets of london and you were walking
around the streets of boston
how how palpable was the contrast
between uh
a monarchy with a parliament and a
republic
let's just stop getting ourselves but
there's a
similar need to believe in the darkness
of italy in the dark ages right that oh
yeah yeah italy
and athens they really mattered at one
time
in the incredibly distant past but then
after that reading is done
after basically polybius you say
polybius is kind of the conclusion that
we have polybius and cicero and
cato cato cato the younger you know we
have we have a few names that creep in
from
from greece and rome and then there's
this sense that we can
and should ignore what happened in italy
now look let's be real at this time
the people of italy the level of
education
the quality of life was far
superior to the united states of america
i mean
you know sorry let's let's come back
another book that's already put on
camera
yes the barbarous years i agree in these
years
in this historical period we're talking
about white
americans white american farmers they
were barbarians
these were people who had the blood on
their hands directly blood on their
hands from genocide and slavery this is
a tremendously violent tremendously
barbaric
situation i gotta tell you the the level
of intellectual discourse amongst
machiavelli and his contemporaries
about democracy about government about
freedom
it's on another level guys you know what
i mean but
americans can't let this happen they
can't let it be
that italy is a model of excellence to
aspire to they can't have a higher
mountain in the painting
that puts their own in perspective they
can't have the humility
you know what i mean so it's really sad
it's you know it's it's the opposite of
that old saying you know we're
we're giants because we're standing on
the shoulders of giants i'm sorry
whatever we're you know
like we're standing on the strollers of
giants that we're not just giants unto
ourselves
we're standstills it's of actively
wanting to
deny and repress the memory of and
delete from history
you know what really were better and
more important
presidents you know now of course
you know they're they're simultaneous
and competing events
rather than uh you know an earlier
example machiavelli's long before the
american revolution
but of course there's a similar sort of
question to be asked
about the way in which americans
disparage and disregard the french
revolution right
i mean i could talk about that for an
hour but i mean
in in some way in some ways italy is a
deeper threat
to the american ego uh than the french
revolution and i would just note
um that
pattern or that agenda to try to
make the american revolution a unique
and outstanding accomplishment in
history of the world
that was already happening during the
lifetime of the founding fathers
totally dishonest misrepresentation of
of of history
um uh guvnor
morris so his title is not governor
there was an historical figure whose
first name was governor
governor morris was one of the authors
of the american constitution he was a
founding father participating in all
that
political history has unfolded and he
was in
france as the um
ambassador of the united states of
france during the most violent years of
the french revolution
the great terrorists and so forth and
already at that
stage as the history is unfolding
you know there's this agenda of the
americans and i'll mention the english
did this also to say
no no no no this thing the french are
doing it's nothing like
what we americans accomplish oh no no no
no that what the americans had
accomplished with something terribly
refined and sophisticated and unique and
remarkable in human history
and oh no no these french they're they
you know they have they have no
understanding of democracy or
republicanism
they're just in fear they they don't get
it at all they're not
that was that agenda already existed at
that time
and maybe one of the most dramatic and
extreme examples someone who already
came up so i don't actually have his
book on paper here i don't
physically hear but i did i did read it
just a few months ago
um boswell
boswell the biographer of johnson
boswell who went to corsica
you know uh
boswell supported the american
revolution
but then viciously and childishly
opposed
the french revolution now in his case
there's another important factor which
is that he
supported black slavery
to a ridiculous exam he was pro he was
in favor of the enslavement of black
africans to a ridiculous extent
but um boswell was a very influential
example of an englishman
who was enough of a whig enough of a
progressive whatever you want to say
to support the american revolution but
then it was somehow
necessary to his ego to try to construe
the american revolution as something
totally unique in the history of the
world and that the french revolution
just had nothing
to do with it nothing come with it let
alone you know what can we talk about
florence venice the the various
um city-states and micro-republics and
democracies shout out to san marino
uh still exists as a separate country by
the way within within italy but it's
separate family
you know um
yeah so i just say i think that's a kind
of sickness
within the american spirit and
uh unlike other agendas in politics and
propaganda
i think it's a sickness that most of us
are not yet
aware of thank you guys for your time
it's been wonderful streaming with you